---
format:
  html:
    embed-resources: true
    css: format/styles.css
    toc: true
    logo: format/flafs_logo.png
filters:
  - format/color-text.lua
---

::::: {.notes-head}

:::: {.notes-head-img}

<img src='format/flafs_logo.png'>

::::

:::: {.notes-head-title}

::: {.h1 .title}

Continuing Education Committee Meeting Notes

:::

::::

:::::

[**CE Committee Docs**](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1W_bZGeJDpjzV0rEXNILKVXCh2YZljoJC)

# 2024 

## April 8

**Agenda:**

- Update on career panel details (JO)
- Identify career panel planning needs
    - How do we ensure that this is a successful event (well attended/promotes discusion among panelists and audience)
    - who is target audience? Students? Students and early career professionals?
    - what topics should panel cover?
- Identify Student-Mentor lunch planning needs
    - Do we need to recruit more mentors?
    - Provide ice-breakers or guidance to mentors?
    - Random assignment of students to mentors or strategic? 
    - How do we identify/organize tables during the event if room will also be hosting lunch for non-participants? 
    - Lunch on Wednesday?
- Discuss committee update for business meeting
    
**Meeting Objective(s):**

- Finalize career panel and student-mentor lunch details for the upcoming annual meeting

**Attendees:**

:::: {.grid}

::: {.g-col-6}

* Jason O'Connor

* Rachel Liebman

:::

::: {.g-col-6}

* Kerry Walia-Flaherty

* Bridgette Froeschke

:::

::::

**Notes**

- Career Panel
  - All six of our career panelists are confirmed and registered
  - Joy Hazell (UF - NRLI) has agreed to moderate the event.
    - need to follow up with Joy to discuss event specifics -- maybe can hammer out via e-mail -- schedule meeting if necessary 
  - How do we encourage participation?
    - There are currently about 55-60 folks who indicated on registration that they would be interested in attending the CE event... Hard to put a lot of stock in this since there were no specific details about the event provided.
    - Create an advertisement poster.
      - add to website
      - email out to registered students
      - email out to membership
      - contact professors to ask that they encourage their students to participate
  - Discussed some ideas about what might be covered/included in the career panel.
     - Who is intended audience?
       - Students <u>and</u> early career professionals -- a lot of FWC participants with 5 or fewer years post-bachelors might benefit 
     - What do we want panelists to discuss? 
       - Path to current career
       - What do day-to-day responsibilities entail
       - How have your career goals evolved? 
       - Tips for getting hired into respective organization
         - *Interactive event:* have audience share the skills/attributes that they think are important and have panelists rank them ... might could be done through interactive platform like mentimeter
         - *Interactive event:* host a mentimeter survey that is displayed via QR code during session breaks to get meeting participant data --- display and discuss results during career panel.
           - What is one skill or class that best prepared you for your current position? 
  - *Need to leave room for questions*
    - How long should we plan for the event to last? -- A minimum of 1.5 hours. Budget for 45-60 minutes of moderated panelist discussion and 30-45 minutes of audience Q&A. 
    - May not be an issue if Career Panel is the last event on the schedule ... Q&A can go for as long as folks are interested... but that could also contribute to lower participation if folks are wanting to get on the road. 
         
- Student-Mentor lunch 
    - currently there are 27 mentors and 22 students signed up for the event. 
      - can do 1-1 assignment, extra mentors can be assigned any students that register for meeting on site.
      - briefly discussed whether we do 3 mentor-3 student table arrangement, but decided the 1v1 approach is best. As minimal structure as possible will be best. No seating assignments. No ice breakers. This may foster more organic interactions.
      - How do we assign students to mentors? Random? Strategic?
        - strategic may be tough... 
        - Agreed to random-ish approach. Random, but avoid affiliation matches as much as possible. 
    - How many registered students signed up for the event? 
       - Currently there are ~45 students register, and ~ 22 students signed up for event.... so about half
       - Do we want to email a reminder to to all registered students and ask if they would like to be added?
    - How long is lunch? 1 hour? is this long enough?
      - Last year the lines for food were very long. If student-mentor pairs get stuck in this line it could limit the amount of time they have to chat... or they could be forced to chat while standing in line. Can we arrange for student-mentors to access the food line ahead of other participants? **Ask EXCOM**
      - Lunch on Wednesday? -- Earlier the better, but Tuesday people might still be arriving. This really the only time slot that works well. No change.
- Committee Business Meeting Update
  - Acknowledge committee members that are stepping down
    - Dan Nelson
    - Carissa Gervassi
    - Michelle Shaffer
  - Call for new committee members
    - Need to develop a committee mission statement and define annual commitment -- may have some of this stuff already -- check sharedrive files
    - maybe put up a committee sign-up sheet at the meeting?
    - if no volunteers maybe we should consider recruiting 1-2 new members... could use some current students
      
**To Do:**

- [ ] Reach out to Joy to discuss event details (email chain or meeting) - [*Nick*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] Ask EXCOM about student-mentor lunch logistics & budgeting for 1.5hr career panel - [*Jason*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] Create event flyer for career panel that can be distributed via email list serve and hosted on website - [*Kerry*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] Create a mentimeter survey mock-up - [*Kerry*]{color="blue"} 

## January 18

**Agenda:**

- Committee orientation (JO)
- Discuss committee goals for hosting career panel
- Discuss workshop options for 2024 annual meeting
  - May 14-16 (pm 16th?)
  - $500 budgeted into reg fees - could spend more if necessary to cover costs
  - Chelsey Crandall volunteered to host communications workshop
  - Rachael brought up a number of ideas
    - [women of water conference](https://womenofthewater.wixsite.com/conference/copy-of-mentorship-program)
    - [AFS Southern Division](https://units.fisheries.org/tn/sdafs2024chattanooga/meeting-materials/workshops/)
    - [Society for Integrative Biology](https://www.xcdsystem.com/sicb/program/I1Kr23t/index.cfm?pgid=1342&qfixed=1&filterpage=1355)
    - eDNA
    - public dimensions
    - tackling non-native species concerns
  - [Past CE committee ideas](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12gALMf_JVDKPlAB-8L28GRpa7tBObvOL?usp=drive_link) 
- 2 workshops? wednesday evening workshop? 

**Meeting Objective(s):**

- narrow ideas down to a short list & assign responsibilities for contacting presenters

**Attendees:**

:::: {.grid}

::: {.g-col-6}

* Allison Durland-Donahou

* Jason O'Connor

* Rachel Liebman

* Kerry Walia-Flaherty

:::

::: {.g-col-6}

* Nick Trippel

* Bridgette Froeschke

* Carissa Gervassi

:::

::::

**Notes**

- The fall virtual career panel fell through, where do we go from here? 
  - We had a lot of the groundwork laid out, let's reformat for annual meeting
  - format?
    - lunch - student/mentor format 
      - 1:1 or 1:2
    - breakfast on last day in poster room? 
       - maybe not a great time, people tired/some leaving
    - more traditional panel round table directly following lunch on the last day
    - Could do both student/mentor lunch (Wed) and career panel (Thurs). 
- Poster room -- could it be done in there? Ask Steve
  - may depend on how many people show up
- Outside tiki/pool area if the weather cooperates

- Can people who want to attend a thursday afternoon reserve room at group rate for thursday night (ask Steve)?

- Chelsey volunteered to host a sci-com workshop
  - Similar workshop was done in 2017, was well attended. 
  - Worth revisiting in the future, but let's stick with just the career panel for this meeting to avoid over-loading the meeting

- Let's move forward planning with hosting both a student/mentor lunch and career panel
  - Need to identify potential mentors for S-M lunch
    - add check box to registration 
      - reg is currently open, but since most reg typically happens last day we probably still have time to work it in. **Talk with Steve**
      - If we don't get enough volunteers, we will recruit with directed e-mails from list of registrants. 
  - Need to agree on panelists for career panel
    - 6 is probably a good number
    - pull from people attending or reach out to others who don't normally? 
      - 3 regulars/3 non-regulars - key is to introduce some diversity into the panel
    - Let's agree upon panelists via email (**Deadline: 2 weeks (1/31/24)**)
      - consider having one panelist from different career categories:
        - academia: research
        - academia: teaching
        - state agency
        - federal agency
        - policy/environmental law (recruit... don't normally attend)
        - Hubbard marina (charter fishing)
        
        
**To Do:**

- [X] Ask Steve about getting a mentor volunteer check box added to reg form - [*Jason*]{color="blue"}

- [X] Contribute ideas to panelist brainstorming list - [*Everyone*]{color="blue"}

- [X] Send out e-mail to CE comm to organize panelist selection - [*Jason*]{color="blue"}

- [X] Contact selected candidates by 1/31/24 - [*TBD - CE group effort*]{color="blue"}
    

# 2023

## July 27

**Agenda:**

*Tentative Agenda*:

- Virtual career panel planning
    - review panelist ideas and discuss any communications with potential panelists
    - discuss format ideas
    - who will moderate? 
    - how/where do we advertise?


## June 27

**Agenda:**

* Discuss options for a virtual Summer/Fall workshop

* ~~*Review new committee webpage*~~  

**Attendees:**

:::: {.grid}

::: {.g-col-6}

* Allison Durland-Donahou

* Jason O'Connor

* Rachel Liebman

* Kerry Walia-Flaherty

:::

::: {.g-col-6}

* Nick Trippel

* Dan Nelson

* Bridgette Froeschke

:::

::::

**Notes:**

* Allison has created a survey draft and distributed to CE committee. She also reached out to Marcus Beck and he provided a few questions to add to the survey. Allison will revise draft and distribute to membership in the next week or so. CE committee, please review draft and send Allison any revisions ASAP. 

* Rachel is still working on website update ideas for the committee page. We will table this discussion for future meeting.

* Open forum for discussing ideas for a virtual summer workshop (late Aug - early Sep)
  - Rachel suggested that a lot of CE workshops are geared towards early career professionals, how can we pick topics that might be of more interest to mid-late career professionals as well? 
    - how to build mentor-mentee relationships
    - retirement planning
    - time management
  - leadership development  
    * Discussed our previous attempt to recruit Steve McMillan to give an in person seminar at the 2022 chapter meeting. Plans fell through and we pivoted, but might be worth revisiting. Maybe not the best option for a virtual meeting because it would be nice to give people opportunity to meet and speak with Steve in person. 
    * Alternatively, Nick or Dan might be able to coordinate with NRDI instructors to host a workshop on leadership topics
  - Career fair/panel oriented towards students
  - science communication
    * technical writing
    * how to talk to the public
    * conflict management

* Group discussion began to gravitate around the career panel idea. 
  - better in person or virtual?
    - virtual option might allow us to recruit panelists, who might not typically be willing/able to travel to in-person meeting, but miss out on networking opportunities and face-to-face interaction
    - in-person - gives students a more personal experience/networking opportunites/more engaging, but maybe more difficult to recruit panelists and fitting a panel in meeting agenda could be tough logistically 
  - Dan suggested we do both - virtual in the fall and then carving out a spot in the chapter meeting agenda for an in-person career fair event, where organizations would have table space set up during an open session. Group expressed general agreement with this approach.
  - Need to pitch the idea of having a career panel at the next chapter meeting to EXCOM. It will need to be accounted for in the meeting agenda. 

* What do we need to do to organize virtual panel for the fall?
  - Identify organizations and panelists to contact -- shared google doc would be a great place to store this information
  - Platform? - Microsoft teams is convenient for FWC and other folks employed at large organizations, but zoom might more familiar to students than teams, also may be able to avoid headaches with out-of-network attendees using zoom. Allison has zoom account through Florida Southern that can accommodate ~ 100 attendees. Maybe Angela has access to zoom account through UF with even greater capability? 
  - When should we plan to host the seminar? 
    * late summer, before class starts may be good for grad students, but undergrads usually MIA
    * if we host it during the school year, it would give us an opportunity to announce the panel through professors
    * Allison suggested doing it within the first month of the semester before workload picks up for both students and professors. 
    * Classes start Aug 23rd for many - maybe we try to target mid September. Might be good to see if there is a time that best for the greatest number of panelists before setting final date. 
* Lets start compiling a list of potential panelists and format ideas. Everyone please take some time before the next meeting to add ideas and thoughts to google doc that Jason will share. 
* Meet again in 1 month to discuss progress, and next steps. 
      

**To Do:**

- [ ] Finalize survey draft and distribute to membership - [*Allison*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] new webpage mock-up - [*Rachel*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] figure out a good way to implement repository for committe documents- [*Jason*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] schedule July meeting - [*Jason*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] Create a shared google doc for organizing virtual job panel - [*Jason*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] Contribute ideas to shared document - [*All*]{color="blue"}

**Next Meeting:**

*TBD* - late July, keep an eye out for meeting schedule poll

*Tentative Agenda*:

- Virtual career panel planning
    - review panelist ideas and discuss any communications with potential panelists
    - discuss format ideas
    - who will moderate? 
    - how/where do we advertise?

## May 23

**Attendees:**

* Allison Durland-Donahou

* Jason O'Connor

* Rachel Liebman

**Notes:**

* Briefly discussed the Open Sci workshop hosted by Marcus Beck at the 2023 Chapter Meeting. Attendance was ~20-25. This was higher slightly higher than attendance at the critical thinking workhop presented at the 2022 Chapter Meeting. Mostly positive reviews of the workshop. We had about ~60-70 people indicate that they planned to attend the workshop on the meeting registration form, in light of this, attendance was somewhat disappointing. Did the timing of the workshop (post-meeting) hamper attendance or was topic less interesting to membership? - Might be good time to send out a membership survey.

* Rachel suggested updating website to include a continuing ed page that list other opportunities for professional development in addition to the workshops the committee has organized. More a one-stop shop for all kinds of resources related to continuing education. 

* The committee has a lot of resources we've accumlated: meeting notes, idea lists, survey templates, and results. It would be good to establish a central repository (*e.g.* google drive, website page, etc) for these resources so they are easier to find, and pass on to new committee members in the future.

* Let's plan to meet Late June-Early July to discuss summer/fall workshop ideas. 

**To Do:**

- [x] put together membership survey - [*Allison*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] new webpage mockup - [*Rachel*]{color="blue"}

- [ ] figure out a good way to implement repository - [*Jason*]{color="blue"}

- [x] send out meeting invite - [*Jason*]{color="blue"}

# 2021

## January 14

**Agenda:**

Discuss Spring 2021 Virtual Workshop with co-hosts Summer Lindelien and Jessica Carroll


**Notes:**

1. Background Information - Summer
    a. Reviewed slides from her workshop to show framework to meeting attendees that have not taken her workshop
1. Non-lethal aging studies conducted by Jessica and her team in St. Pete
    a. Goliath Grouper
       i)	Long-term study using fun rays, otoliths and spines from carcasses
       i)	Closed fishery
    a.	Red Drum
        i)	Telemetry study, avoided sacrificing
    a.	Spines from Tortugas in closed fisheries mgmt areas
        i)	Almost every reef fish sampled by FIM
        i)	Gag and red snapper have good agreement
3.	Workshop Goals
    a.	Broad audience by including FW and Marine species
    b.	Combine similarities between FW and Marine
    c.	Highlight differences that could exist
    d.	Teach practical applications of non-lethal aging to FL AFS membership using case studies in Largemouth Bass, Gag Grouper and Goliath Grouper
4.	Marine
    a.	More strategic implementation, less likely to use non-lethal aging in management
5.	Dependent and independent monitoring biologist attendee considerations 
    a.	Focus on collecting and processing aspect
6.	Considerations for new species
    a.	Spine morphology, different structures
7.	Storage and transportation considerations – best practices
    a.	Very helpful for those with less experience/background
8.	Considerations for students, others without aging experience
    a.	Basic background on aging structures to provide big picture for those without any aging experience
9.	Pre vs post survey about workshop experience
    a.	Tailor surveys to meet feedback goals of CE Committee and workshop presenters
10.	Workshop Duration
    a.	~4 hours maximum
    b.	2 short breaks
11.	Include demonstration of QAQC in workshop looking at data from workshop attendees
12.	Is Adobe Connect the best platform?
    a.	How well does it handle large groups (50+)?
13.	Attendee Considerations
    a.	How to limit access? Can we limit
14.	Date and Time
    a.	April 14th @ 0900-1300
15.	Title for Workshop
    a.	Practical Applications of Non-lethal Aging of Freshwater and Marine Fishes
        i.	Marine Focal Species = Gag and Goliath Grouper
        ii.	Freshwater Focal Species = Largemouth Bass
16.	Next Meeting: Mid-march 
    a.	I’ll send out a meeting invite to go generally go over workshop with inclusion of marine spp.

**To Do:**

- [x] Reach out to Laura Jerome about AdobeConnect - [*Summer*]{color="blue"}
- [x] Collaborate to to incorporate content for Gag and Goliath and general intro - [*Summer & Jess*]{color="blue}
- [x] Draft agenda for January Shellcracker - [*Summer & Jess*]{color="blue}
- [x] Schedule next meeting (mid-March) - [*Chris*]{color="blue}
