[
  {
    "objectID": "meeting_notes.html",
    "href": "meeting_notes.html",
    "title": "2024",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Continuing Education Committee Meeting Notes\nCE Committee Docs"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "meeting_notes.html#january-18",
    "href": "meeting_notes.html#january-18",
    "title": "2024",
    "section": "January 18",
    "text": "January 18\nAgenda:\n\nCommittee orientation (JO)\nDiscuss committee goals for hosting career panel\nDiscuss workshop options for 2024 annual meeting\n\nMay 14-16 (pm 16th?)\n$500 budgeted into reg fees - could spend more if necessary to cover costs\nChelsey Crandall volunteered to host communications workshop\nRachael brought up a number of ideas\n\nwomen of water conference\nAFS Southern Division\nSociety for Integrative Biology\neDNA\npublic dimensions\ntackling non-native species concerns\n\nPast CE committee ideas\n\n2 workshops? wednesday evening workshop?\n\nMeeting Objective(s):\n\nnarrow ideas down to a short list & assign responsibilities for contacting presenters"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "meeting_notes.html#july-27",
    "href": "meeting_notes.html#july-27",
    "title": "2024",
    "section": "July 27",
    "text": "July 27\nAgenda:\nTentative Agenda:\n\nVirtual career panel planning\n\nreview panelist ideas and discuss any communications with potential panelists\ndiscuss format ideas\nwho will moderate?\nhow/where do we advertise?"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "meeting_notes.html#june-27",
    "href": "meeting_notes.html#june-27",
    "title": "2024",
    "section": "June 27",
    "text": "June 27\nAgenda:\n\nDiscuss options for a virtual Summer/Fall workshop\nReview new committee webpage\n\nAttendees:\n\n\n\nAllison Durland-Donahou\nJason O’Connor\nRachel Liebman\nKerry Walia-Flaherty\n\n\n\n\nNick Trippel\nDan Nelson\nBridgette Froeschke\n\n\n\nNotes:\n\nAllison has created a survey draft and distributed to CE committee. She also reached out to Marcus Beck and he provided a few questions to add to the survey. Allison will revise draft and distribute to membership in the next week or so. CE committee, please review draft and send Allison any revisions ASAP.\nRachel is still working on website update ideas for the committee page. We will table this discussion for future meeting.\nOpen forum for discussing ideas for a virtual summer workshop (late Aug - early Sep)\n\nRachel suggested that a lot of CE workshops are geared towards early career professionals, how can we pick topics that might be of more interest to mid-late career professionals as well?\n\nhow to build mentor-mentee relationships\nretirement planning\ntime management\n\nleadership development\n\nDiscussed our previous attempt to recruit Steve McMillan to give an in person seminar at the 2022 chapter meeting. Plans fell through and we pivoted, but might be worth revisiting. Maybe not the best option for a virtual meeting because it would be nice to give people opportunity to meet and speak with Steve in person.\nAlternatively, Nick or Dan might be able to coordinate with NRDI instructors to host a workshop on leadership topics\n\nCareer fair/panel oriented towards students\nscience communication\n\ntechnical writing\nhow to talk to the public\nconflict management\n\n\nGroup discussion began to gravitate around the career panel idea.\n\nbetter in person or virtual?\n\nvirtual option might allow us to recruit panelists, who might not typically be willing/able to travel to in-person meeting, but miss out on networking opportunities and face-to-face interaction\nin-person - gives students a more personal experience/networking opportunites/more engaging, but maybe more difficult to recruit panelists and fitting a panel in meeting agenda could be tough logistically\n\nDan suggested we do both - virtual in the fall and then carving out a spot in the chapter meeting agenda for an in-person career fair event, where organizations would have table space set up during an open session. Group expressed general agreement with this approach.\nNeed to pitch the idea of having a career panel at the next chapter meeting to EXCOM. It will need to be accounted for in the meeting agenda.\n\nWhat do we need to do to organize virtual panel for the fall?\n\nIdentify organizations and panelists to contact – shared google doc would be a great place to store this information\nPlatform? - Microsoft teams is convenient for FWC and other folks employed at large organizations, but zoom might more familiar to students than teams, also may be able to avoid headaches with out-of-network attendees using zoom. Allison has zoom account through Florida Southern that can accommodate ~ 100 attendees. Maybe Angela has access to zoom account through UF with even greater capability?\nWhen should we plan to host the seminar?\n\nlate summer, before class starts may be good for grad students, but undergrads usually MIA\nif we host it during the school year, it would give us an opportunity to announce the panel through professors\nAllison suggested doing it within the first month of the semester before workload picks up for both students and professors.\nClasses start Aug 23rd for many - maybe we try to target mid September. Might be good to see if there is a time that best for the greatest number of panelists before setting final date.\n\n\nLets start compiling a list of potential panelists and format ideas. Everyone please take some time before the next meeting to add ideas and thoughts to google doc that Jason will share.\nMeet again in 1 month to discuss progress, and next steps.\n\nTo Do:\n\nFinalize survey draft and distribute to membership - Allison\nnew webpage mock-up - Rachel\nfigure out a good way to implement repository for committe documents- Jason\nschedule July meeting - Jason\nCreate a shared google doc for organizing virtual job panel - Jason\nContribute ideas to shared document - All\n\nNext Meeting:\nTBD - late July, keep an eye out for meeting schedule poll\nTentative Agenda:\n\nVirtual career panel planning\n\nreview panelist ideas and discuss any communications with potential panelists\ndiscuss format ideas\nwho will moderate?\nhow/where do we advertise?"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "meeting_notes.html#may-23",
    "href": "meeting_notes.html#may-23",
    "title": "2024",
    "section": "May 23",
    "text": "May 23\nAttendees:\n\nAllison Durland-Donahou\nJason O’Connor\nRachel Liebman\n\nNotes:\n\nBriefly discussed the Open Sci workshop hosted by Marcus Beck at the 2023 Chapter Meeting. Attendance was ~20-25. This was higher slightly higher than attendance at the critical thinking workhop presented at the 2022 Chapter Meeting. Mostly positive reviews of the workshop. We had about ~60-70 people indicate that they planned to attend the workshop on the meeting registration form, in light of this, attendance was somewhat disappointing. Did the timing of the workshop (post-meeting) hamper attendance or was topic less interesting to membership? - Might be good time to send out a membership survey.\nRachel suggested updating website to include a continuing ed page that list other opportunities for professional development in addition to the workshops the committee has organized. More a one-stop shop for all kinds of resources related to continuing education.\nThe committee has a lot of resources we’ve accumlated: meeting notes, idea lists, survey templates, and results. It would be good to establish a central repository (e.g. google drive, website page, etc) for these resources so they are easier to find, and pass on to new committee members in the future.\nLet’s plan to meet Late June-Early July to discuss summer/fall workshop ideas.\n\nTo Do:\n\nput together membership survey - Allison\nnew webpage mockup - Rachel\nfigure out a good way to implement repository - Jason\nsend out meeting invite - Jason"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "meeting_notes.html#january-14",
    "href": "meeting_notes.html#january-14",
    "title": "2024",
    "section": "January 14",
    "text": "January 14\nAgenda:\nDiscuss Spring 2021 Virtual Workshop with co-hosts Summer Lindelien and Jessica Carroll\nNotes:\n\nBackground Information - Summer\n\nReviewed slides from her workshop to show framework to meeting attendees that have not taken her workshop\n\nNon-lethal aging studies conducted by Jessica and her team in St. Pete\n\nGoliath Grouper\n\nLong-term study using fun rays, otoliths and spines from carcasses\nClosed fishery\n\nRed Drum\n\nTelemetry study, avoided sacrificing\n\nSpines from Tortugas in closed fisheries mgmt areas\n\nAlmost every reef fish sampled by FIM\nGag and red snapper have good agreement\n\n\nWorkshop Goals\n\nBroad audience by including FW and Marine species\nCombine similarities between FW and Marine\nHighlight differences that could exist\nTeach practical applications of non-lethal aging to FL AFS membership using case studies in Largemouth Bass, Gag Grouper and Goliath Grouper\n\nMarine\n\nMore strategic implementation, less likely to use non-lethal aging in management\n\nDependent and independent monitoring biologist attendee considerations\n\nFocus on collecting and processing aspect\n\nConsiderations for new species\n\nSpine morphology, different structures\n\nStorage and transportation considerations – best practices\n\nVery helpful for those with less experience/background\n\nConsiderations for students, others without aging experience\n\nBasic background on aging structures to provide big picture for those without any aging experience\n\nPre vs post survey about workshop experience\n\nTailor surveys to meet feedback goals of CE Committee and workshop presenters\n\nWorkshop Duration\n\n~4 hours maximum\n2 short breaks\n\nInclude demonstration of QAQC in workshop looking at data from workshop attendees\nIs Adobe Connect the best platform?\n\nHow well does it handle large groups (50+)?\n\nAttendee Considerations\n\nHow to limit access? Can we limit\n\nDate and Time\n\nApril 14th @ 0900-1300\n\nTitle for Workshop\n\nPractical Applications of Non-lethal Aging of Freshwater and Marine Fishes\n\nMarine Focal Species = Gag and Goliath Grouper\nFreshwater Focal Species = Largemouth Bass\n\n\nNext Meeting: Mid-march\n\nI’ll send out a meeting invite to go generally go over workshop with inclusion of marine spp.\n\n\nTo Do:\n\nReach out to Laura Jerome about AdobeConnect - Summer\nCollaborate to to incorporate content for Gag and Goliath and general intro - Summer & Jess\nDraft agenda for January Shellcracker - Summer & Jess\nSchedule next meeting (mid-March) - Chris"
  }
]